# Homophones

A Rust tool that makes a list of homophones from [Wikitionary](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Wiktionary:Main_Page).


## What's in this project

- Some lists of homophones
- A Rust command-line tool to generate your own list of homophones, based on an inputted word list. 

## Lists of homophones

If you're looking for lists of homophones, look in the `homophone-lists` directory.

Lists that are labeled "as pairs" contain pairs of homophones separated by commas. Example: 

```txt
acts,ax
adds,ads
adds,adze
```

Lists labeled "as singles" are these same words, but with each on its own line, no commas: 

```txt
acts
ax
adds
ads
adds
adze
```

Any lists with "cleaned" in the file name have been cleaned in some way, likely trimmed of whitespace, de-duplicated, and sorted alphabetically. I'd recommend using cleaned files over singles.

## Making your own list of homophones

To make your own list of homophones, you'll want to use the Rust command-line tool. 

### How it works

The Rust command-line tool will search and scrape Wikitionary for each word in the inputted word list file(s), searching for homophones. 

### Installation

1. [Install Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) if you haven't already
2. Run: `cargo install --git https://github.com/sts10/homophones --branch main`

### Usage 

```txt
homophones 0.1.2
Generate lists of homophones

USAGE:
    homophones [OPTIONS] <Inputted Word Lists>...

ARGS:
    <Inputted Word Lists>...    Word list input files. Can be more than one

OPTIONS:
    -f, --force                       Force overwrite of output file if it exists
    -h, --help                        Print help information
    -p, --pairs <PAIRS_OUTPUT>        Path for outputted file for list of PAIRS of homohpones
    -s, --singles <SINGLES_OUTPUT>    Path for outputted file for list of SINGLE homohpones
    -V, --version                     Print version information

```

### Examples

Take words from a file called `input_list.txt` and print a list of homophones, one per line, to a new file called `some_homophones_as_a_single_list.txt`:
`homophones -s some_homophones_as_a_single_list.txt input_list.txt` 

Take words from a file called `input_list.txt` and print a list of homophones, a pair of homophones per line, to a new file called `some_homophones_as_pairs_list.txt`:
`homophones -p some_homophones_as_pairs_list.txt input_list.txt`

Do both of those things at once!
`homophones -s some_homophones_as_a_single_list.txt -p some_homophones_as_pairs_list.txt input_list.txt`

## To do

- [ ] Make it async!

## License

This project scrapes homophones from [Wikitionary](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Wiktionary:Main_Page). In an effort to comply with [Wikitionary's Terms of Use](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Terms_of_Use/en), the lists/products generated by this project, including files in the `./homophone-lists` directory, are, like the text of Wikitionary itself, available under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).

The code of this project is available under the MIT License.
